FreeCap manual
==============


Summary

FreeCap is an online business simulation game, where the player builds up his
own company from the ground, to a multi-billion corporation consisting of many
businesses in possibly many product areas. The game simulates supply and
demand per city for a large number of products. The player can try his hand at
mining, farming, manufacturing, retail and research by building farms, mines,
factories, retail stores and R&D centers respectively. The game is turn-based,
with each turn representing a single game week.


Company

The player acts as the CEO of his company, consisting of many individual
businesses. Each business is responsible for its own result, and all businesses
contribute to the overall company's result.


Products

Products are divided into three categories:
- raw products (e.g. wheat, silica, oil)
- semi products (e.g. flour, glass, plastics)
- consumer products (e.g. bread, bottled milk, dolls)
Raw products are produced by mines and farms. Semi and consumer products are
produced in factories. Consumer products are sold in stores. 


Businesses

A business can be either a mine, farm, factory, retail store or R&D center.
Businesses can (depending on the type) buy products from or sell them to other
businesses, which may belong to the same company or belong to competing
companies. These transactions are initiated by the buying business, which
places a (continuing) order at the selling business. These orders will be
processed every turn (as long as the seller has enough products in stock). Both
the seller and the buyer can cancel an order at any time.


Mines

A mine produces raw products from the earth's natural resources, like iron,
coal and oil. Each mine has a fixed quantity of its product and thus will
eventually be depleted.


Farms

A farm produces raw products from crops or lifestock, dividing farms in crop
farms and lifestock farms. A crop farm produces raw products like wheat, sugar,
cotton and rubber. A lifestock farm primarily produces the lifestock itself
(e.g. chickens, cows, pigs) and secondarily any produces from these lifestock
(e.g. eggs, milk, beef, pork, leather).


Factories

A factory takes one or more raw or semi products and manufactures them into
(other) semi or consumer products. Factories can be chained to produce even
more complex products.


Stores

A store sells consumer products to a city's local consumers. The demand depends
on many factors, including the product price, quality, brand and necessity
level, competition, whealth and economic situation.


Cities

Each business is located in a specific city. Each city has its own population
demographics, determining the demand in local stores. A city can contain many
businesses from many companies, all competing for the same customer demand. The
distance between cities determines the freight costs of transactions between
businesses in different cities.
